DOCS-467 - Copilot Preview 2 (#4594)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/search/copilot.md

* **Root cause analysis**. Quickly identify the root cause of issues with AI assistance.
* **Increased efficiency**. Streamline the log analysis process, minimizing manual tasks.

### Who benefits from Copilot?

Copilot is ideal for:

* **On-call engineers**. Accelerate time to resolution by surfacing key application insights.
* **Security engineers**. Obtain security insights rapidly for faster threat detection.

## How to use Copilot

In this section, you'll learn the recommended workflow for using Copilot effectively, along with best practices to maximize its benefits.

### Step 1: Open Copilot

To start using Copilot:

From the [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic), navigate to the **Copilot** tab on the Sumo Logic home page.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/copilot-tab.png')} alt="Copilot tab" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="200" />

From the [**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui), click **Copilot** in the left nav.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/copilot-tab-new.png')} alt="Copilot tab" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="150" />

### Step 2: Select a source category

> Click **Select Source Category** - the source expression box - and type/select the data source of the log messages you want to investigate. In this example, we'll do AWS WAF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Select Source Category** - the source expression box - and type/select the data source of the log messages you want to investigate. In this example, we'll select a source for AWS WAF.
```

#### Time range

1. Click the clock icon and select your desired time range from the dropdown.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/time-period.png')} alt="Copilot time period" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />
1. Click the search button.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/search-button.png')} alt="Copilot search button" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="250" />

#### Chart type

Select your preferred chart type, such as **Table**, **Bar**, **Column**, or **Line** view to visualize your results. You can also add it to an existing dashboard.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/chart-types.png')} alt="Copilot chart types" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />

#### Edit query code

If needed, you can edit your log search query code.

1. Click in the code editor field and edit your search. Not familiar with Sumo Logic query language? See [Search Query Language](/docs/search/search-query-language) to learn more.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/code-editor.png')} alt="Copilot time period" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />

>    <!-- These two notes conflict. I've asked for clarity.

Author: [Pending Slack response](https://sumologic.slack.com/archives/C06MGHMLKJ8/p1727586126038479)

1. When you're done, press Enter or click the search button.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/play.png')} alt="Copilot time period" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />

:::tip
To save space, you can use the **Hide Log Query** icon to collapse the log query code.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/show-hide-query.png')} alt="Copilot time period" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />
:::

#### Recent history

To view your recent prompts from your current session, click the recent history icon.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/recent-history.png')} alt="recent-history.png" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="700" />

#### History

To view your entire prompt history across all conversations, click **History**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/history.png')} alt="Copilot History" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="700" />

#### New Conversation

To start over and begin a new investigation, click **New Conversation**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/copilot/new-conversation.png')} alt="Copilot new conversation" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="700" />

### Step 5: Open in Log Search

> Click the **Open in Log Search** icon, which will copy your query from Copilot over to a new Log Search, allowing you to utilize all of Sumo Logic's search functionality. You can continue investigating, save the search, and remediate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Open in Log Search** icon, which will copy your query from Copilot over to a new log search, allowing you to utilize all of Sumo Logic's search functionality. You can continue investigating, save the search, and remediate.
```
